Bunnies vs. Bunnies is my first attempt to create a game about oppression, subjugation, and genocide. 
It was created for the mini Ludum Dare #14 48-hour game making competition; the competition was 
extended, and the game was finished in five days. The theme of the competition was "Tragedy and/or 
Comedy." I decided to go with the tragedy theme, and to tackle it head on in a serious way. I started 
out wanting to make a game specifically about the oppression of Palestinians in Israel, but partly due 
to the time constraints of the competition, the game ended up being more general, and about 
genocide. 
I wanted to create a game about large-scale subjugation because I have spent a large portion of my life 
in the Middle East, and the oppression of the Palestinians there has had a deep impact on me. I didn't 
mind turning more generally to the topic of genocide, because I have lived in Africa, and genocide is a 
stark reality there (though not in the countries I have lived in). I wanted to make a game about these 
realities because they are realities that are not often addressed in computer games, and I want them 
to be, because I want computer games to speak to all areas of human life and experience, all over the 
world. As Anna Anthropy has said, "we must make games we wish to play in the world."
I say that computer games don't often address the issues of subjugation and genocide, but of course 
that's not true: every other RTS or strategy game out there is about wiping out a nation, or a race. We 
have done worse than not address these issues: we have abstracted and trivialized them. And so I 
wanted to make a game that was not only about genocide, but also about computer games, and the 
way they treat genocide. I wanted to create a game that started out just like any other resource 
management game (a "cute" one, at that), but that slowly progressed to making the player aware of 
their complicity in genocide, in a more obvious, blatant way than other games did. 
Another of my goals (made almost necessary by the theme) was to get away from the clichéd and 
unrealistic idea of "balancing sides" common to almost all strategic and tactical computer games. I 
wanted to present the player with a game where the sides were blatantly unbalanced, and nothing 
was fair. 
I chose bunnies to represent people because they are cute, and make the theme of genocide that 
much starker, and more troubling; I wanted to try and somehow work in the "comedy" theme of the 
competition, if only tangentially, and in a very dark way. Also, rabbits have a prodigious history of 
anthropomorphization, extending from the works of Beatrix Potter to Richard Adams' Watership 
Down, so they seemed to suit the game's satirical purpose well. 
Whether I succeeded at all or any of my goals-or, more importantly, whether I succeeded in an 
effective way-is entirely up to you to determine. Personally, I am happy with the outcome as 
representing the creative output of five days' labor, but I see a lot that falls short. On the gameplay 
level, the mechanics need to be honed and refined, if the game is to pull people in as I desire it should. 
Then there is the level progression, and how the game deals with its theme of genocide. I struggle to 
know whether the game is too obvious, too heavy handed, or (incredibly) whether it is not obvious 
enough, as some players' comments would indicate. 
On the whole, I have not yet decided whether I want to pursue the game further, or let it rest where it 
is. I like the idea of extending the game and turning it multiplayer, so that it would stress imbalance 
even more: making it a game in which you would oppress not a computer-controlled rabbit nation, but 
one controlled by another human being, where they never had a chance to win.
Jordan Magnuson
Gunsan, Korea
December 2009
